December 2021 Finance Ctte update mail (#223)
astropy/astropy-project: finance/community-updates/2021-11.txt

Dear Astropy Community,

> THe Finance Committee would like to give you some updates on our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Finance Committee would like to give you some updates on our
```

activities over the last year or so.

# NASA funding

In January of this year, several members of the project submitted a
proposal to the NASA ROSES-2020 call, section E.7 (Support for Open
Source Tools, Frameworks, and Libraries). The proposal included a mix of
Project-wide infrastructure improvements, targeted work on specific
areas of the code that are in need of support, enhancements to the our
educational materials, and better support for affiliated packages. The
full text (with some personal details redacted) is available at [1].

The proposal was successful, and has provides a further $634,590 to

> support the fantastic work being undertaken on Astropy. The Finance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
support the fantastic work being undertaken by the Astropy Project. The Finance
```

Committee will arrange processes for disbursing the funds which are
consistent with the goals of the proposal and based on the model we've

> adopting for assigning Moore funding over the past couple of years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adopted for assigning Moore funding over the past couple of years.
```

This is a huge milestone for the project: it shows that we've
successfully used the Moore funding to build a solid set of processes
and a governance structure which enables us to obtain funding from more

> “traditional” academic sources. This is a great step towards ensuring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
“traditional” funding sources. This is a great step towards ensuring
```

the financial viability of the project into the future.

[1] https://drive.google.com/file/d/18JsTRahNWnvign6ao6BP_OkINHnP8g3n/view

# Gemini contract

> The Science User Support Department at Gemini Observatory has funded an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Science User Support Department at Gemini Observatory has funded
```

Simon Conseil as an Astropy contractor to provide maintenance
and development that benefits both the Astropy and DRAGONS projects on a
part-time basis (averaging 5 hours per week over a period of a year or

> two). The details of the work are described in the SOW [2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two). The details of the work are described in the statement-of-work[2].
```
Even I did not recognize the acronym until I check the link.

> The Science User Support Department at Gemini Observatory has funded
> Simon Conseil as an Astropy contractor to provide maintenance
> and development that benefits both the Astropy and DRAGONS projects on a
> part-time basis (averaging 5 hours per week over a period of a year or
> two). The details of the work are described in the statement of work [2].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Science User Support Department at Gemini Observatory has provided funding to the Astropy Project
for maintenance and development work that benefits both the Astropy and DRAGONS projects. We've enlisted Simon Conseil as a part-time contractor (averaging 5 hours per week over a period of a year or
two) to do this work. The details of the work are described in the statement of work [2].
```

Having major facilities like Gemini invest in Astropy is another sign of
both the critical role that the project plays in astronomical
infrastructure worldwide, and of the increasing level of trust displayed
in the project's responsible and sustainable governance.

[2] https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sKiFr5ypS3prkEqEu3s5nEejs0bD93cF7ihXSz3RdZM/edit

# Distribution of Moore funds

We organized a process to select and distribute funds from the Moore
grant to a variety of projects, suggested and selected by the project
membership. We've announced results in detail in the past [3] so we
won't reiterate them in detail here, but we're delighted to report that
most many of the projects are now well underway.

We except to organize similar processes to distribute Moore and NASA
funding in future years. We welcome your feedback on how to continue to
improve our approach to make this as transparent and effective as

> possible.

Reviewer 2: Add something about the survey.

Author: Done

[3] https://groups.google.com/g/astropy-dev/c/c1M2F7rZoF4/m/nbNdg1OsAAAJ

# Meetings, workshops, and other travel

We've supported project members to participate in and represent Astropy

> at a number of fantastic conferences and workshops over the last year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at a number of conferences and workshops over the last year.
```
I know, I know, some hyperbole. But do we really want to judge if all those conference where really fantastic?

These include:

> - Three project members were funded to (vrirtually) attended ADASS XXX,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Three project members were funded to (virtually) attended ADASS XXX,
```

> - Three project members were funded to (virtually) attended ADASS XXX,
>   where Brigitta Sipocz spoke on “astroquery: a community driven

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Three project members were funded to (virtually) attended ADASS XXXI,
  where Brigitta Sipocz spoke on “astroquery: a community driven
```

Author: No, it really was “XXX” — our last mail went out before that meeting. I'm not aware of us funding anybody to go to ADASS XXXI — if we did, we don't seem to have written an issue about it.

  collaboration of data providers and data consumers”. [4]

> - Three project members hosted the “Astropy and NumFocus Sponsored
>   Projects” booth in the Virtual Exhibit Hall at AAS 237, while also ran
>   two workshops: “Introduction to Astropy” and “Research with Astropy”. [5]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Three project members hosted the “Astropy and NumFocus Sponsored
  Projects” booth in the Virtual Exhibit Hall at AAS 237. Project members also provided
  two workshops: “Introduction to Astropy” and “Research with Astropy”. [5]
```

- Similarly, three project members paricipated in AAS 238, again hosting
  workshops entitled “Introduction to Astropy” and “Astronomical
  Research with Astropy”. [6]

> - We also supported three project memnbers to participate in the SciPy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We also supported three project members to participate in the SciPy
```

  2021 conference and workshop. [7]

The links below provide more information and take-away messages from
each of these meetings.

[4] https://github.com/astropy/astropy-project/issues/141
[5] https://github.com/astropy/astropy-project/issues/140
[6] https://github.com/astropy/astropy-project/issues/201
[7] https://github.com/astropy/astropy-project/issues/210

# No longer an Interim Finance Committee

One of the first acts of the recently-elected Coordination Committee
(“CoCo3”) was to confirm the Finance Committee, with its current
members, as a part of standing project organization and to remove the

> work “interim” from its title. We're now just the “Astropy Finance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“interim” from its title. We're now just the “Astropy Finance
```
